---
title: "2.2"
date: 2025-02-01T05:59:32.963Z
lastmod: 2025-07-23T23:04:41.067Z
---
*taipei, again*

I still remember the exact moment this trip happened. I was sitting on the comfortably carpeted floor in Dua's [writing/houston|Houston](writing/houston%7CHouston) apartment, watching him apply novel technologies to complete his math homework. I, of course, had some work, but I was also a bachelor (of arts) and thus figured I could take a small break, or two, which would add up to the duration of the weekend.\[^1]

I started scrolling through my string of regular websites, eventually stumbling onto a friend's blog, eventually seeing the words "trip to Taiwan". I knew it wasn't my usual crowd — which, given the selection process, was probably not a good thing — as evidenced by things I had previously been rejected for. Still, out of boredom more than anything, I wrote the application in about ten minutes, then Dua and I embarked on the night.

A few weeks later, I got to stage 2. *There's more stages to this?* This time, the application could not be done in an unfocused ten minutes — scrap paper was called for. While in Sofia's gracious hands & [writing/1.0|Clinton home](writing/1.0%7CClinton%20home), in between making an apple cobbler and feasting on vegan truffle "cheese", I sat down and used precisely one sheet of scrap paper; quantitative skills again exemplified.\[^2]

I found out about stage 3 during exam week. I raised my eyebrows, tried to explain what rationality was to my friend Noah, then signed up for an interview where I, again, used one sheet of scrap paper. I watched my friend Aria clean Cobb 411, regretted not thinking of the things I was saying about forty minutes earlier, then Ricky picked me up to go to Greensboro. I heard back following a couple of days full of plot twists, enough days to make me forget about the application, enough twists that Aria and I were in my local Metro shopping for Raymond's surprise New Year's/birthday party when I found out.

The last couple of weeks have been underwritten by this trip. I've had to create make-up assignments, try to explain what rationality was a few more times, and also book a bunch of flights. Only a few other things are notable since I've landed. I forgot how much I missed Taiwan; I had to fly around 24 hours to get here; I've had a disgusting amount of caffeine in trying to adjust my jetlag; food is really good; my Mandarin is really bad; I'm doing a better job of just wandering around and trying things (last time I tried to optimise, which is somewhat futile; I also was scared, given my Mandarin). Less scared now, language just as lacking.

***

[writing/on agency, the dark arts, and paperclips](/writing/on%20agency,%20the%20dark%20arts,%20and%20paperclips)\
[childhood](/childhood)

\[^1]: See my quantitative skills in action?\
\[^2]: One time, I told a high school teacher I was planning to take Calc 2 in semester one, and her eyes went wide. I did not end up taking Calc 2. She knew better than I did, at that moment.
