---
title: 05-23&24-2024
date: 2024-05-24T04:42:08.000Z
lastmod: 2025-07-23T23:04:40.327Z
---
23:27

I have spent nearly two hours trying to find a reasonable flight to Anchorage. I was willing to fly from four different airports. The one reasonable flight (reasonable = wouldn't require me give up two+ days in Asia/cost below \$3000 for a one way/require four total days of travel) was on a website called Ovigo. After filling out all my information, and clicking book, the website simply did not process a booking (I even called Amex to check).

I think it's time to soak and move on. Time to write. I've written down the list of posts I need to write here, and I'll strikethrough as I go:

* [(blog) notes from my 30L backpack](/\(blog\)%20notes%20from%20my%2030L%20backpack)
* [travel/CM/foreign friends](/travel/CM/foreign%20friends)
* [travel/DC/DC.2](/travel/DC/DC.2)
* [travel/travel/osaka, japan](/travel/travel/osaka,%20japan)
* [travel/travel/tokyo, japan](/travel/travel/tokyo,%20japan)
* [travel/travel/kyoto, japan](/travel/travel/kyoto,%20japan)
* [travel/travel/seoul, south korea](/travel/travel/seoul,%20south%20korea)
* [travel/travel/houston, texas](/travel/travel/houston,%20texas)
* [travel/travel/san josé, costa rica](/travel/travel/san%20jos%C3%A9,%20costa%20rica)
* [travel/travel/toronto, ontario, canada](/travel/travel/toronto,%20ontario,%20canada)
* [readings/a wild haruki chase](/readings/a%20wild%20haruki%20chase)
  * 11:55pm. Bang. First blog done. Cigar soon, maybe.

00:12\
Back from a bit of a break. Have consumed 2000 mg of Vitamin C (am coming down with a cold). Also discovered where we keep the plum wine (my favourite drink). CBTM.

00:41

Pulled out the timer strat. In 27:10 I wrote [travel/CM/foreign friends](/travel/CM/foreign%20friends), leaving out parts but more reflective than I thought. Happy with how it turned out. I wonder how I'm going to fit in a cigar?
