---
title: 2023-10-22
date: 2023-10-22T12:37:00.000Z
lastmod: 2023-10-22T12:37:00.000Z
---
A bunch of things in Reims that I'll remember (given I didn't journal too much):

* to paris: flix bus running late, worrying about a shit ton, then realising i could just get rebooked. arrived, missed the connection, then realised the man who would help me spoke fluent English, and I didn't have to worry about the language barrier (which concerns me a lot, often). ended up at an indian restaurant where i got persuaded into eating a bunch of other stuff. but still, eating good is okay. and reward myself and find a place where i can just sit and work. also got some good convo. tbh, i think i just shouldn't worry too much about the little things, like a meal here or there, etc. Also, getting more out of my comfort zone to go into a restaurant in the first place, in my opinion. also ngl, as i write this, the naan is fucking gas. man who took my order came here to do a MBA in ENGLISH, which is fucked.
  * we talked abt stuff, kept challenigng myself. learned the word for straw (bai? smith like that) and talked abt parisian love for indian food. epice is spicy, btw.
* savar felt really sick, went to a doctor where an indian guy in a hoodie was helping us. indian prodeed him for two seconds then said "i think you have covid". got scared, got a bit bitchy, savar got tested the day after and he was negative. felt weird because i was so turned off by how willing savar was to just take his midterm. we took his test in some pharmacy, where i perused the skincare and felt a  little bad that i didn't go and help him conduct in French.
  * when I was doing laundry, I met a Georgian guy who was here to play professional rugby. he spoke no french at all — I just said, nice bag (a basic fit bag). the next day, we were working out together. he invited me to his mountain home. he works out a lot of volume (cardio in the middle of stuff, etc). he spends from 9am to 2pm in the gym because he's lonely and doesn't like to be alone. he seems like the type typically above my level, but because he's lonely and doesn't speak language, im sure he was vv grateful for my kindness/companionship
* savar and i got pretty drunk each night and watched GOT. savar kept dying of laughter at how much of GOT i knew. on our last night, we had a nice convo over pizza/pasta dinner. reminded me that my social stamina can be turned on (e.g my capacity to just listen adn not selfishly take over, which does seem to be the default as a friedn — need to consider whether it's egotistical or really not contributing is bad and I should listen to my instincts).
  * at the pizza resto, we had a waitress who was super loud and kept demanding stuff of me in frenc. it was kinda funny.
* i feel a little guilty for not journaling, because it does let days slip away. thena gain, recounting the mundane is a littel, well, mundane and boring. i want to find a way to overcome that fatigue and make sure I journal. with the travel days, journalling will be more important.
